Listening on a TCP/UDP Port
Listening on a TCP or UDP
port using Netcat
is useful for receiving a
network connection.
Let’s try implementing a simple chat
service involving two machines,
using Netcat both as a client
and as a server.
We’ll connect to our Windows
client with rdesktop,
which is a basic Linux
Remote Desktop client.
Now let’s launch a command prompt.
Then we’ll change to the
practical tools directory,
where we have the applications we
need for this module, including Netcat.
Let’s proceed with our scenario
and set up Netcat to listen for
incoming connections on TCP port 4444.
We’ll use the -n and -v options again
along with -l to create a listener,
and -p to specify the
listening port number.
Now that we have bound port 4444
on this Windows machine to Netcat,
let’s connect to that port
from our Linux machine…
…and enter a line of text.
Our text will be sent…
…and we can continue the “chat”
from the Windows machine.
Although this is a simple example,
it demonstrates several
important features in Netcat.
Netcat can be used for far more
than just a simple chat application.